I said in my heart come now I will test
you with mirth therefore enjoy pleasure
but surely this also was vanity I said
of laughter madness and of mirth what
does it accomplish I searched in my
heart how to gratify my flesh with wine
while guiding my heart with wisdom and
how to lay hold on folly till I might
see what was good for the sons of men to
do under heaven all the days of their
lives
I made my works great I bit myself
houses and planted myself vineyards I
made myself gardens and orchards and I
planted all kinds of fruit trees in them
I made myself water pools from which to
water the growing trees of the Grove I
acquired male and female servants and
had servants born in my house yes I had
greater possessions of herds and flocks
than all who were in Jerusalem before me
I also gathered for myself silver and
gold and the special treasures of Kings
and of the provinces I acquired male and
female singers the delights of the sons
of men and musical instruments of all
kinds
so had to came great and excelled more
than all who were before me in Jerusalem
also my wisdom remained with me whatever
my eyes desired I did not keep from them
I did not withhold my heart from any
pleasure for my heart rejoiced in all my
labor this was my reward from all my
labor then I looked on all the works
that my hands are done and on the labor
in which I had toiled and indeed all was
vanity and grasping for the wind there
was no profit under the Sun then I
turned myself to consider wisdom and
madness and folly for what can the man
do who succeeds the king only what he
has already done then I saw that wisdom
excels folly as light excels darkness
the wise man's eyes are in his head but
the fool walks in darkness yet I myself
perceived that the same event happens to
them all so I said in my heart as it
happens to the fool it also happens to
me and why was I then more wise then I
said in my heart this also is vanity
well there is no more remembrance of the
wise than of the fool for ever since all
that now is will be forgotten in the
days to come and how does a wise man die
as the fool
therefore I hated life because the work
that was done under the Sun was
distressing to me for all is vanity and
grasping for the wind then I hated all
my labor in which I had toiled under the
Sun because I must leave it to the man
who will come after me and who knows
whether he will be wise or a fool yet he
will rule over all my labor in which I
toiled and in which I have shown myself
wise under the Sun this also is vanity
therefore I turned my heart and
despaired of all the labor in which I
had toiled under the Sun for there is a
man whose labor is with wisdom knowledge
and skill yet he must leave his heritage
to a man who has not labored for it this
also is vanity and a great evil for what
has man for all his labor and for the
striving of his heart with which he has
toiled under the Sun for all his days
are sorrowful and his work burdensome
even in the night his heart takes no
rest this also is vanity nothing is
better for a man than he should eat and
drink and that his soul should enjoy
good in his labour this also I saw was
from the hand of God for who can eat or
who can have enjoyment more than I for
God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy
to a man who is good in his sight but to
the sinner he gives the work of
gathering and collecting that he may
give to him who is good before God this
also is vanity and grasping for the wind
you
[Music]